[WIP] Traduzione del readme in inglese (#27)
pcm-dpc/COVID-19: README_EN.md

<img src="http://opendatadpc.maps.arcgis.com/sharing/rest/content/items/5c8ef7516b5b4bb19f61037b4cd69015/data" alt="COVID-19" data-canonical-src="http://opendatadpc.maps.arcgis.com/sharing/rest/content/items/5c8ef7516b5b4bb19f61037b4cd69015/data" width="400" />

# Italy's COVID-19 Data

[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/pcm-dpc/COVID-19)](https://github.com/pcm-dpc/COVID-19/blob/master/license)
[![GitHub commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/pcm-dpc/COVID-19)](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/pcm-dpc/COVID-19)

[Website of the Dipartimento della Protezione Civile - Emergenza Coronavirus: la risposta nazionale](http://www.protezionecivile.it/attivita-rischi/rischio-sanitario/emergenze/coronavirus)

> On the 31 January 2020, the Council of Ministers declared a emergency of 6 month duration, in response to the health risk associated with the corona virus infection. The Head of the Civil Protection Department, Angelo Borrelli, was appointed as the coordinator of all the interventions necessary to deal with the emergency.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the 31 January 2020, the Council of Ministers declared an emergency of 6-month duration, in response to the health risk associated with the coronavirus infection. 
The Head of the Civil Protection Department, Angelo Borrelli, was appointed as the coordinator of all the interventions necessary to deal with the emergency.  
```

> The main goals of the department were aimed at the rescue and assistance of the population affected by the infection, the strengthening of checks in airports and port areas, the repatriation of Italian citizens in areas deemed at risk and the repatriation of foreign citizens to their countries of origin if they were exposed to the infection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main goals of the department are aimed at the rescue and assistance of the population affected by the infection, the strengthening of airports and port areas checks, the repatriation of Italian citizens in areas deemed at risk and the repatriation of foreign citizens to their countries of origin if they were exposed to the infection.
```

Reviewer 3: If they were exposed -> In case they have been exposed

Reviewer 3: Foreign citizens to their countries of origin if they were exposed -> foreign citizens, in case their countries of origin are exposed to risk of infection

> In order to inform the citizens and to make the data collected available, intended ONLY for communication and information purposes, the Civil Protection Department has developed an interactive geographical dashboard that can be seen at the addresses [http://arcg.is/C1unv](http://arcg.is/C1unv) (desktop version) and [http://arcg.is/081a51](http://arcg.is/081a51) (mobile version) and it makes available, under license CC-BY-4.0, the following information updated daily at 6:30 p.m. (30 minutes after the press conference from the head of the department):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Civil Protection Department developed an interactive geographical dashboard, [http://arcg.is/C1unv](http://arcg.is/C1unv) (desktop version) and [http://arcg.is/081a51](http://arcg.is/081a51) (mobile version), as a tool to inform the citizens and to make the data collected available.
The data, released under the CC-BY-4.0 license and intended only for communication and information purposes, will be updated daily at 6:30 p.m. (30 minutes after the press conference from the head of the department):
```

> In order to inform the citizens and to make the data collected available, intended ONLY for communication and information purposes, the Civil Protection Department has developed an interactive geographical dashboard that can be seen at the addresses [http://arcg.is/C1unv](http://arcg.is/C1unv) (desktop version) and [http://arcg.is/081a51](http://arcg.is/081a51) (mobile version) and it makes available, under license CC-BY-4.0, the following information updated daily at 6:30 p.m. (30 minutes after the press conference from the head of the department):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To inform citizens and to make the collected data available, intended ONLY for communication and information purposes, the Civil Protection Department has developed an interactive geographical dashboard that can be accessed at the addresses [http://arcg.is/C1unv](http://arcg.is/C1unv) (desktop version) and [http://arcg.is/081a51](http://arcg.is/081a51) (mobile version) and makes available, under license CC-BY-4.0, the following information updated daily at 6:30 p.m. (30 minutes after the press conference from the head of the department):
```

> In order to inform the citizens and to make the data collected available, useful ONLY for communication and information purposes, the Civil Protection Department has developed an interactive geographical dashboard that can be reached at the addresses [http://arcg.is/C1unv](http://arcg.is/C1unv) (desktop version) and [http://arcg.is/081a51](http://arcg.is/081a51) (mobile version) and it makes available, under license CC-BY-4.0, the following information updated daily at 6:30 p.m. (30 minutes after the press conference from the head of the department):

Reviewer 4: The data can be useful in several ways, but its _intended_ use is as described. This puts the *intention* of the repo into context, helping avoid misuse and disinformation.

- Schede riepilogative (Summary sheets)
- Shape aree di contenimento (Shapes of containment areas)

## Structure of the repository
```
COVID-19/
│
├── andamento-nazionale/
│   ├── dpc-covid19-ita-andamento-nazionale-yyyymmdd.csv
├── dati-province/
│   ├── dpc-covid19-ita-province-yyyymmdd.csv
├── dati-json/
│   ├── dpc-covid19-ita-*.json
├── dati-regioni/
│   ├── dpc-covid19-ita-regioni-yyyymmdd.csv
├── schede-riepilogative/
│   ├── province
│   │   ├── dpc-covid19-ita-scheda-province-yyyymmdd.pdf
│   ├── regioni
│   │   ├── dpc-covid19-ita-scheda-regioni-yyyymmdd.pdf
├── shape-aree-contenimento/
│   ├── covid-19-aree.*
```

## Data format

### Data divided by region

**Directory:** `dati-regioni`

**Path daily file:** `dpc-covid19-ita-regioni-yyyymmdd.csv` (example:`dpc-covid19-ita-regioni-20200224.csv`)

**Recap file:** `dpc-covid19-ita-regioni.csv`

| Name                 | Descrizione (Italian)                      | Description                            | Format                       | Example             |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-------------------------------|---------------------|

> | **data**                        | Data dell’informazione            | Date of notification                   | YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS (ISO 8601) Italian time | 2020-03-05 12:15:45 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **data**                        | Data dell’informazione            | Timestamp                   | YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS (ISO 8601) Italian time | 2020-03-05 12:15:45 |
```

> | **stato**                       | Stato di riferimento              | Country of reference                   | XYZ (ISO 3166-1 alpha-3)      | ITA                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **stato**                       | Stato di riferimento              | Country code                   | XYZ (ISO 3166-1 alpha-3)      | ITA                 |
```

> | **codice_regione**              | Codice della Regione (ISTAT 2019) | Code of the Region (ISTAT 2019)        | Number                        | 13                  |

Reviewer: Region code

> | **denominazione_regione**       | Denominazione della Regione       | Name of the Region                     | String                         | Abruzzo             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **denominazione_regione**       | Denominazione della Regione       | Region name                   | String                         | Abruzzo             |
```

| **lat**                         | Latitudine                        | Latitude                               | WGS84                         | 42.6589177          |
| **long**                        | Longitudine                       | Longitude                              | WGS84                         | 13.70439971         |
| **ricoverati_con_sintomi**      | Ricoverati con sintomi            | Hospitalised patients with symptoms    | Number                        | 3                   |

> | **terapia_intensiva**           | Ricoverati in terapia intensiva   | Intensive Care                         | Number                        | 3                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **terapia_intensiva**           | Ricoverati in terapia intensiva   | Patients in intensive Care                         | Number                        | 3                   |
```

| **totale_ospedalizzati**        | Totale ospedalizzati              | Total hospitalised patients            | Number                        | 3                   |
| **isolamento_domiciliare**      | Persone in isolamento domiciliare | Home confinement                       | Number                        | 3                   |
| **totale_attualmente_positivi** | Totale attualmente positivi (ospedalizzati + isolamento domiciliare)      | Total amount of current positive cases (Hospitalised patients + Home confinement)  | Number                        | 3                   |

> | **nuovi_attualmente_positivi**  | Nuovi attualmente positivi (ospedalizzati + isolamento domiciliare)       | News amount of current positive cases (Hospitalised patients + Home confinement)  | Number                        | 3                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **nuovi_attualmente_positivi**  | Nuovi attualmente positivi (ospedalizzati + isolamento domiciliare)       | New positive cases (Hospitalised patients + Home confinement)  | Number                        | 3                   |
```

| **dimessi_guariti**             | Persone dimesse guarite           | Recovered                              | Number                        | 3                   |

> | **deceduti**                    | Persone decedute                  | Death                                  | Number                        | 3                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **deceduti**                    | Persone decedute                  | Deaths                                  | Number                        | 3                   |
```

| **totale_casi**                 | Totale casi positivi              | Total amount of positive cases         | Number                        | 3                   |
| **tamponi**                     | Totale tamponi                    | Tests performed                        | Number                        | 3                   |

*The Autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano are listed separately in the "region name" but they both share the code 04 of Trentino Alto Adige as "codice_regione".* 

*A JSON file containing all the information for all the dates is made available at the path: `dati-json/dpc-covid19-ita-regioni.json`* 

> ### Data divided by province

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Per-province data
```

edit for brevity

**Directory:** `dati-province`

**Path daily file:** `dpc-covid19-ita-province-yyyymmdd.csv` (example: `dpc-covid19-ita-province-20200224.csv`)

**Recap file:** `dpc-covid19-ita-province.csv`

| Name              | Descrizione (Italian)                       | Description                     | Format            | Example              |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------|--------------------|----------------------|

> | **data**                    | Data dell’informazione              | Date of notification            | YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS Italian time (ISO 8601)           | 2020-03-05 12:15:45 |                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **data**                    | Data dell’informazione              | Timestamp            | YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS Italian time (ISO 8601)           | 2020-03-05 12:15:45 |                   |
```

> | **stato**                   | Stato di riferimento                | Country of reference            | ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 | ITA                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **stato**                   | Stato di riferimento                | Country code           | ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 | ITA                  |
```

| **codice_regione**          | Codice della Regione (ISTAT 2019)   | Code of the Region (ISTAT 2019) | Number             | 13                   |

> | **denominazione_regione**   | Denominazione della Regione         | Name of the Region              | String              | Abruzzo              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **denominazione_regione**   | Denominazione della Regione         | Region name             | String              | Abruzzo              |
```

> | **codice_provincia**        | Codice della Provincia (ISTAT 2019) | Code of the Province            | Number             | 067                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **codice_provincia**        | Codice della Provincia (ISTAT 2019) | Province code           | Number             | 067                  |
```

> | **denominazione_provincia** | Denominazione della provincia       | Name of the Province            | String              | Teramo               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **denominazione_provincia** | Denominazione della provincia       | Province name           | String              | Teramo               |
```

*The Autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano are listed separately in the "region name" but they both share the code 04 of Trentino Alto Adige as "codice_regione".* 

*Each Region has a "fake" province named `In fase di definizione/aggiornamento` (in the definition/updating phase) with province code from 979 to 999. This code is used to indicate that the data was not yet assigned to a specific province.*

*A JSON file containing all the information for all the dates is made available in at the path: `dati-json/dpc-covid19-ita-province.json`*

### National trend

**Directory:** `dati-andamento-nazionale`

**Path daily file:** `dpc-covid19-ita-andamento-nazionale-yyyymmdd.csv` (example: `dpc-covid19-ita-andamento-nazionale-20200224.csv`)

**Recap file:** `dpc-covid19-ita-andamento-nazionale.csv`

| Name               | Descrizione  (Italian)                      | Description                            | Format            | Example              |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------------------------------|--------------------|----------------------|

> | **data**                       | Data dell’informazione            | Date of notification                   | YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS Italian time (ISO 8601)           | 2020-03-05 12:15:45 |                                  |                                        |                    |                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **data**                       | Data dell’informazione            | Timestamp                   | YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS Italian time (ISO 8601)           | 2020-03-05 12:15:45 |                                  |                                        |                    |                      |
```

Reviewer 4: "Italian time" -> CET / UTC+1 ?

Reviewer: @brucellino vero meglio essere precisi.
Mi chiedo pero' cosa succede col passaggio all'ora legale che formalmente e' CEST (UTC+2).  Non so come si possa indicare. 
Forse mettere CET e mettere una nota dicendo "from March 29th all timestamps are to be considered as CEST".

Detto questo forse non e' un gran problema perche' l'orario e' solo relativo all'update, non ha particolare rilevanza in questo caso.

Reviewer 5: "Europe/Rome"?

> | **stato**                      | Stato di riferimento              | Country of reference                   | ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 | ITA                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **stato**                      | Stato di riferimento              | Country code                   | ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 | ITA                  |
```

| **ospedalizzati**              | Totale ospedalizzati              | Total hospitalised patients            | Number             | 3                    |
| **isolamento_domiciliare**     | Persone in isolamento domiciliare | Home confinement                       | Number             | 3                    |
| **attualmente_positivi**       | Totale attualmente positivi       | Total amount of current positive cases | Number             | 3                    |
| **dimessi_guariti**            | Persone dimesse guarite           | Recovered                              | Number             | 3                    |

> | **deceduti**                   | Persone decedute                  | Death                                  | Number             | 3                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **deceduti**                   | Persone decedute                  | Deaths                                  | Number             | 3                    |
```

| **totale_casi**                | Totale casi positivi              | Total amount of positive cases         | Number             | 3                    |

> | **nuovi_attualmente_positivi** | Nuovi attualmente positivi        | News amount of current positive cases  | Number             | 3                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **nuovi_attualmente_positivi** | Nuovi attualmente positivi        | News positive cases  | Number             | 3                    |
```

Reviewer 4: "News positive cases" -> "New positives cases" ?

Reviewer: si, refuso mio! corretto
